source/getting-started.rst, before:

.. _getting-started:

Getting Started
---------------

Simple Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have installed Selenium Python bindings, you can start using it from
Python like this.

::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()
  driver.get("http://www.python.org")
  assert "Python" in driver.title
  elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")
  elem.clear()
  elem.send_keys("pycon")
  elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)
  assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source
  driver.close()

The above script can be saved into a file (eg:- `python_org_search.py`), then it
can be run like this::

  python python_org_search.py

The `python` which you are running should have the `selenium` module installed.

Example Explained
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `selenium.webdriver` module provides all the WebDriver implementations.
Currently supported WebDriver implementations are Firefox, Chrome, IE and
Remote.  The `Keys` class provide keys in the keyboard like RETURN, F1, ALT etc.

::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

Next, the instance of Firefox WebDriver is created.

::

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()

The `driver.get` method will navigate to a page given by the URL.  WebDriver
will wait until the page has fully loaded (that is, the "onload" event has
fired) before returning control to your test or script. *Be aware that if your
page uses a lot of AJAX on load then WebDriver may not know when it has
completely loaded*::

  driver.get("http://www.python.org")

The next line is an assertion to confirm that title has "Python" word in it::

  assert "Python" in driver.title

WebDriver offers a number of ways to find elements using one of the
`find_element_by_*` methods.  For example, the input text element can be located
by its `name` attribute using `find_element_by_name` method.  A detailed
explanation of finding elements is available in the :ref:`locating-elements`
chapter::

  elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")

Next, we are sending keys, this is similar to entering keys using your keyboard.
Special keys can be sent using `Keys` class imported from
`selenium.webdriver.common.keys`.  To be safe, we'll first clear any
pre-populated text in the input field (e.g. "Search") so it doesn't affect our
search results::

  elem.clear()
  elem.send_keys("pycon")
  elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)

After submission of the page, you should get the result if there is any.  To
ensure that some results are found, make an assertion::

  assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source

Finally, the browser window is closed.  You can also call `quit` method instead
of `close`.  The `quit` will exit entire browser whereas `close` will close one
tab, but if just one tab was open, by default most browser will exit entirely.::

  driver.close()


Using Selenium to write tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selenium is mostly used for writing test cases.  The `selenium` package itself
doesn't provide a testing tool/framework.  You can write test cases using
Python's unittest module.  The other options for a tool/framework are `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/>`_
and `nose <https://nose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.

In this chapter, we use `unittest` as the framework of choice.  Here is the
modified example which uses unittest module.  This is a test for `python.org`
search functionality::

  import unittest
  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

  class PythonOrgSearch(unittest.TestCase):

      def setUp(self):
          self.driver = webdriver.Firefox()

      def test_search_in_python_org(self):
          driver = self.driver
          driver.get("http://www.python.org")
          self.assertIn("Python", driver.title)
          elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")
          elem.send_keys("pycon")
          elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)
          assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source
          

      def tearDown(self):
          self.driver.close()

  if __name__ == "__main__":
      unittest.main()


You can run the above test case from a shell like this::

  python test_python_org_search.py
  .
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ran 1 test in 15.566s

  OK

The above result shows that the test has been successfully completed.


Walkthrough of the example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Initially, all the basic modules required are imported.  The `unittest
<http://docs.python.org/library/unittest.html>`_ module is a built-in Python
based on Java's JUnit.  This module provides the framework for organizing the
test cases.  The `selenium.webdriver` module provides all the WebDriver
implementations.  Currently supported WebDriver implementations are Firefox,
Chrome, IE and Remote.  The `Keys` class provides keys in the keyboard like
RETURN, F1, ALT etc.

::

  import unittest
  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

The test case class is inherited from `unittest.TestCase`.  Inheriting from
`TestCase` class is the way to tell `unittest` module that this is a test case::

  class PythonOrgSearch(unittest.TestCase):


The `setUp` is part of initialization, this method will get called before every
test function which you are going to write in this test case class.  Here you
are creating the instance of Firefox WebDriver.

::

      def setUp(self):
          self.driver = webdriver.Firefox()

This is the test case method. The test case method should always start with
characters `test`.  The first line inside this method create a local reference
to the driver object created in `setUp` method.

::

      def test_search_in_python_org(self):
          driver = self.driver

The `driver.get` method will navigate to a page given by the URL.  WebDriver
will wait until the page has fully loaded (that is, the "onload" event has
fired) before returning control to your test or script. *Be aware that if your
page uses a lot of AJAX on load then WebDriver may not know when it has
completely loaded*::

          driver.get("http://www.python.org")

The next line is an assertion to confirm that title has "Python" word in it::

          self.assertIn("Python", driver.title)


WebDriver offers a number of ways to find elements using one of the
`find_element_by_*` methods.  For example, the input text element can be located
by its `name` attribute using `find_element_by_name` method.  Detailed
explanation of finding elements is available in the :ref:`locating-elements`
chapter::

          elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")

Next, we are sending keys, this is similar to entering keys using your keyboard.
Special keys can be send using `Keys` class imported from
`selenium.webdriver.common.keys`::

          elem.send_keys("pycon")
          elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)

After submission of the page, you should get the result as per search if there
is any.  To ensure that some results are found, make an assertion::

  assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source

The `tearDown` method will get called after every test method.  This is a place
to do all cleanup actions.  In the current method, the browser window is closed.
You can also call `quit` method instead of `close`.  The `quit` will exit the
entire browser, whereas `close` will close a tab, but if it is the only tab
opened, by default most browser will exit entirely.::

      def tearDown(self):
          self.driver.close()

Final lines are some boiler plate code to run the test suite::

  if __name__ == "__main__":
      unittest.main()

.. _selenium-remote-webdriver:

Using Selenium with remote WebDriver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use the remote WebDriver, you should have Selenium server running.  To run
the server, use this command::

  java -jar selenium-server-standalone-2.x.x.jar

While running the Selenium server, you could see a message looking like this::

  15:43:07.541 INFO - RemoteWebDriver instances should connect to: http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub

The above line says that you can use this URL for connecting to remote
WebDriver.  Here are some examples::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.desired_capabilities import DesiredCapabilities

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities=DesiredCapabilities.CHROME)

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities=DesiredCapabilities.OPERA)

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities=DesiredCapabilities.HTMLUNITWITHJS)

The desired capabilities is a dictionary, so instead of using the default
dictionaries, you can specify the values explicitly::

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities={'browserName': 'htmlunit',
                           'version': '2',
                          'javascriptEnabled': True})

Commit message:

Add a note about usage with IPython or Jupyter
Co-authored-by: Baiju Muthukadan <baiju.m.mail@gmail.com>

source/getting-started.rst, after:

.. _getting-started:

Getting Started
---------------

Simple Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have installed Selenium Python bindings, you can start using it from
Python like this.

::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()
  driver.get("http://www.python.org")
  assert "Python" in driver.title
  elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")
  elem.clear()
  elem.send_keys("pycon")
  elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)
  assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source
  driver.close()

The above script can be saved into a file (eg:- `python_org_search.py`), then it
can be run like this::

  python python_org_search.py

The `python` which you are running should have the `selenium` module installed.

Example Explained
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `selenium.webdriver` module provides all the WebDriver implementations.
Currently supported WebDriver implementations are Firefox, Chrome, IE and
Remote.  The `Keys` class provide keys in the keyboard like RETURN, F1, ALT etc.

::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

Next, the instance of Firefox WebDriver is created.

::

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()

The `driver.get` method will navigate to a page given by the URL.  WebDriver
will wait until the page has fully loaded (that is, the "onload" event has
fired) before returning control to your test or script. *Be aware that if your
page uses a lot of AJAX on load then WebDriver may not know when it has
completely loaded*::

  driver.get("http://www.python.org")

The next line is an assertion to confirm that title has "Python" word in it::

  assert "Python" in driver.title

WebDriver offers a number of ways to find elements using one of the
`find_element_by_*` methods.  For example, the input text element can be located
by its `name` attribute using `find_element_by_name` method.  A detailed
explanation of finding elements is available in the :ref:`locating-elements`
chapter::

  elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")

Next, we are sending keys, this is similar to entering keys using your keyboard.
Special keys can be sent using `Keys` class imported from
`selenium.webdriver.common.keys`.  To be safe, we'll first clear any
pre-populated text in the input field (e.g. "Search") so it doesn't affect our
search results::

  elem.clear()
  elem.send_keys("pycon")
  elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)

After submission of the page, you should get the result if there is any.  To
ensure that some results are found, make an assertion::

  assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source

Finally, the browser window is closed.  You can also call `quit` method instead
of `close`.  The `quit` will exit entire browser whereas `close` will close one
tab, but if just one tab was open, by default most browser will exit entirely.::

  driver.close()


Using Selenium to write tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selenium is mostly used for writing test cases.  The `selenium` package itself
doesn't provide a testing tool/framework.  You can write test cases using
Python's unittest module.  The other options for a tool/framework are `pytest <https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/>`_
and `nose <https://nose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.

In this chapter, we use `unittest` as the framework of choice.  Here is the
modified example which uses unittest module.  This is a test for `python.org`
search functionality::

  import unittest
  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

  class PythonOrgSearch(unittest.TestCase):

      def setUp(self):
          self.driver = webdriver.Firefox()

      def test_search_in_python_org(self):
          driver = self.driver
          driver.get("http://www.python.org")
          self.assertIn("Python", driver.title)
          elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")
          elem.send_keys("pycon")
          elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)
          assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source
          

      def tearDown(self):
          self.driver.close()

  if __name__ == "__main__":
      unittest.main()


You can run the above test case from a shell like this::

  python test_python_org_search.py
  .
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Ran 1 test in 15.566s

  OK

The above result shows that the test has been successfully completed.

Note: To run the above test in IPython or Jupyter, you should pass a couple of arguments to the `main` function as shown below:
::

  unittest.main(argv=['first-arg-is-ignored'], exit=False)
  


Walkthrough of the example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Initially, all the basic modules required are imported.  The `unittest
<http://docs.python.org/library/unittest.html>`_ module is a built-in Python
based on Java's JUnit.  This module provides the framework for organizing the
test cases.  The `selenium.webdriver` module provides all the WebDriver
implementations.  Currently supported WebDriver implementations are Firefox,
Chrome, IE and Remote.  The `Keys` class provides keys in the keyboard like
RETURN, F1, ALT etc.

::

  import unittest
  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys

The test case class is inherited from `unittest.TestCase`.  Inheriting from
`TestCase` class is the way to tell `unittest` module that this is a test case::

  class PythonOrgSearch(unittest.TestCase):


The `setUp` is part of initialization, this method will get called before every
test function which you are going to write in this test case class.  Here you
are creating the instance of Firefox WebDriver.

::

      def setUp(self):
          self.driver = webdriver.Firefox()

This is the test case method. The test case method should always start with
characters `test`.  The first line inside this method create a local reference
to the driver object created in `setUp` method.

::

      def test_search_in_python_org(self):
          driver = self.driver

The `driver.get` method will navigate to a page given by the URL.  WebDriver
will wait until the page has fully loaded (that is, the "onload" event has
fired) before returning control to your test or script. *Be aware that if your
page uses a lot of AJAX on load then WebDriver may not know when it has
completely loaded*::

          driver.get("http://www.python.org")

The next line is an assertion to confirm that title has "Python" word in it::

          self.assertIn("Python", driver.title)


WebDriver offers a number of ways to find elements using one of the
`find_element_by_*` methods.  For example, the input text element can be located
by its `name` attribute using `find_element_by_name` method.  Detailed
explanation of finding elements is available in the :ref:`locating-elements`
chapter::

          elem = driver.find_element_by_name("q")

Next, we are sending keys, this is similar to entering keys using your keyboard.
Special keys can be send using `Keys` class imported from
`selenium.webdriver.common.keys`::

          elem.send_keys("pycon")
          elem.send_keys(Keys.RETURN)

After submission of the page, you should get the result as per search if there
is any.  To ensure that some results are found, make an assertion::

  assert "No results found." not in driver.page_source

The `tearDown` method will get called after every test method.  This is a place
to do all cleanup actions.  In the current method, the browser window is closed.
You can also call `quit` method instead of `close`.  The `quit` will exit the
entire browser, whereas `close` will close a tab, but if it is the only tab
opened, by default most browser will exit entirely.::

      def tearDown(self):
          self.driver.close()

Final lines are some boiler plate code to run the test suite::

  if __name__ == "__main__":
      unittest.main()

.. _selenium-remote-webdriver:

Using Selenium with remote WebDriver
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To use the remote WebDriver, you should have Selenium server running.  To run
the server, use this command::

  java -jar selenium-server-standalone-2.x.x.jar

While running the Selenium server, you could see a message looking like this::

  15:43:07.541 INFO - RemoteWebDriver instances should connect to: http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub

The above line says that you can use this URL for connecting to remote
WebDriver.  Here are some examples::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.desired_capabilities import DesiredCapabilities

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities=DesiredCapabilities.CHROME)

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities=DesiredCapabilities.OPERA)

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities=DesiredCapabilities.HTMLUNITWITHJS)

The desired capabilities is a dictionary, so instead of using the default
dictionaries, you can specify the values explicitly::

  driver = webdriver.Remote(
     command_executor='http://127.0.0.1:4444/wd/hub',
     desired_capabilities={'browserName': 'htmlunit',
                           'version': '2',
                          'javascriptEnabled': True})
