source/index.rst, before:

********************
Selenium with Python
********************

:Author: `Baiju Muthukadan <https://muthukadan.net>`_
:License: This document is licensed under a
  `Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>`_.

.. note::

   This is not an official documentation.  If you would like to
   contribute to this documentation, you can `fork this project in
   Github and send pull requests
   <https://github.com/baijum/selenium-python>`_.  You can also send
   your feedback to my email: baiju.m.mail AT gmail DOT com.  So far
   50+ community members have contributed to this project
   (See the closed pull requests).  I encourage contributors to add
   more sections and make it a good documentation!


.. toctree::
   :numbered:

   installation
   getting-started
   navigating
   locating-elements
   waits
   page-objects
   api
   faq


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Add list of translations
Signed-off-by: Baiju Muthukadan <baiju.m.mail@gmail.com>

source/index.rst, after:

********************
Selenium with Python
********************

:Author: `Baiju Muthukadan <https://muthukadan.net>`_
:License: This document is licensed under a
  `Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License <http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>`_.

.. note::

   This is not an official documentation.  If you would like to
   contribute to this documentation, you can `fork this project in
   Github and send pull requests
   <https://github.com/baijum/selenium-python>`_.  You can also send
   your feedback to my email: baiju.m.mail AT gmail DOT com.  So far
   50+ community members have contributed to this project
   (See the closed pull requests).  I encourage contributors to add
   more sections and make it a good documentation!  If you know any
   translation of this document, please send a PR to update the
   below list.

   **Translations:**

   - `Chinese <https://selenium-python-zh.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_
   - `Japanese <https://kurozumi.github.io/selenium-python/index.html>`_


.. toctree::
   :numbered:

   installation
   getting-started
   navigating
   locating-elements
   waits
   page-objects
   api
   faq


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
