source/navigating.rst, before:

.. _navigating:

Navigating
----------

The first thing you'll want to do with WebDriver is navigate to a
link.  The normal way to do this is by calling ``get`` method:

::

  driver.get("http://www.google.com")

WebDriver will wait until the page has fully loaded (that is, the
``onload`` event has fired) before returning control to your test or
script.  It's worth noting that if your page uses a lot of AJAX on
load then WebDriver may not know when it has completely loaded.  If
you need to ensure such pages are fully loaded then you can use
:ref:`waits <waits>`.

Interacting with the page
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Just being able to go to places isn't terribly useful.  What we'd
really like to do is to interact with the pages, or, more
specifically, the HTML elements within a page.  First of all, we need
to find one.  WebDriver offers a number of ways to find elements.  For
example, given an element defined as::

  <input type="text" name="passwd" id="passwd-id" />

you could find it using any of::

  element = driver.find_element_by_id("passwd-id")
  element = driver.find_element_by_name("passwd")
  element = driver.find_element_by_xpath("//input[@id='passwd-id']")

You can also look for a link by its text, but be careful! The text
must be an exact match! You should also be careful when using `XPATH
in WebDriver`.  If there's more than one element that matches the
query, then only the first will be returned.  If nothing can be found,
a ``NoSuchElementException`` will be raised.

.. TODO: Is this following paragraph correct ?

WebDriver has an "Object-based" API; we represent all types of
elements using the same interface.  This means that although you may
see a lot of possible methods you could invoke when you hit your IDE's
auto-complete key combination, not all of them will make sense or be
valid.  Don't worry! WebDriver will attempt to do the Right Thing, and
if you call a method that makes no sense ("setSelected()" on a "meta"
tag, for example) an exception will be raised.

So, you've got an element.  What can you do with it? First of all, you
may want to enter some text into a text field::

  element.send_keys("some text")

You can simulate pressing the arrow keys by using the "Keys" class::

  element.send_keys(" and some", Keys.ARROW_DOWN)

It is possible to call `send_keys` on any element, which makes it
possible to test keyboard shortcuts such as those used on GMail.  A
side-effect of this is that typing something into a text field won't
automatically clear it.  Instead, what you type will be appended to
what's already there.  You can easily clear the contents of a text
field or textarea with the `clear` method::

  element.clear()


Filling in forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We've already seen how to enter text into a textarea or text field,
but what about the other elements? You can "toggle" the state of the
drop down, and you can use "setSelected" to set something like an
`OPTION` tag selected.  Dealing with `SELECT` tags isn't too bad::

    element = driver.find_element_by_xpath("//select[@name='name']")
    all_options = element.find_elements_by_tag_name("option")
    for option in all_options:
        print("Value is: %s" % option.get_attribute("value"))
        option.click()

This will find the first "SELECT" element on the page, and cycle
through each of it's OPTIONs in turn, printing out their values, and
selecting each in turn.

As you can see, this isn't the most efficient
way of dealing with SELECT elements. WebDriver's support classes
include one called a "Select", which provides useful methods for
interacting with these::

    from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import Select
    select = Select(driver.find_element_by_name('name'))
    select.select_by_index(index)
    select.select_by_visible_text("text")
    select.select_by_value(value)


WebDriver also provides features for deselecting all the selected options::

    select = Select(driver.find_element_by_id('id'))
    select.deselect_all()

This will deselect all OPTIONs from the first SELECT on the page.

Suppose in a test, we need the list of all default selected options, Select
class provides a property method that returns a list::

    select = Select(driver.find_element_by_xpath("xpath"))
    all_selected_options = select.all_selected_options
    
To get all available options::

    options = select.options

Once you've finished filling out the form, you probably want to submit
it. One way to do this would be to find the "submit" button and click
it::

  # Assume the button has the ID "submit" :)
  driver.find_element_by_id("submit").click()

Alternatively, WebDriver has the convenience method "submit" on every
element.  If you call this on an element within a form, WebDriver will
walk up the DOM until it finds the enclosing form and then calls
submit on that.  If the element isn't in a form, then the
``NoSuchElementException`` will be raised::

  element.submit()


Drag and drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use drag and drop, either moving an element by a certain
amount, or on to another element::

  element = driver.find_element_by_name("source")
  target = driver.find_element_by_name("target")

  from selenium.webdriver import ActionChains
  action_chains = ActionChains(driver)
  action_chains.drag_and_drop(element, target).perform()

Moving between windows and frames
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's rare for a modern web application not to have any frames or to be
constrained to a single window.  WebDriver supports moving between
named windows using the "switch_to_window" method::

  driver.switch_to_window("windowName")

All calls to ``driver`` will now be interpreted as being directed to
the particular window.  But how do you know the window's name? Take a
look at the javascript or link that opened it::

  <a href="somewhere.html" target="windowName">Click here to open a new window</a>

Alternatively, you can pass a "window handle" to the
"switch_to_window()" method.  Knowing this, it's possible to iterate
over every open window like so::

  for handle in driver.window_handles:
      driver.switch_to_window(handle)

You can also swing from frame to frame (or into iframes)::

  driver.switch_to_frame("frameName")

It's possible to access subframes by separating the path with a dot,
and you can specify the frame by its index too.  That is::

  driver.switch_to_frame("frameName.0.child")

would go to the frame named "child" of the first subframe of the frame
called "frameName".  **All frames are evaluated as if from *top*.**

Once we are done with working on frames, we will have to come back
to the parent frame which can be done using::

  driver.switch_to_default_content()

Popup dialogs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selenium WebDriver has built-in support for handling popup dialog
boxes.  After you've triggered action that would open a popup, you
can access the alert with the following::

  alert = driver.switch_to_alert()

This will return the currently open alert object.  With this object,
you can now accept, dismiss, read its contents or even type into a
prompt.  This interface works equally well on alerts, confirms,
prompts.  Refer to the API documentation for more information.


Navigation: history and location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Earlier, we covered navigating to a page using the "get" command (
``driver.get("http://www.example.com")``) As you've seen, WebDriver
has a number of smaller, task-focused interfaces, and navigation is a
useful task.  To navigate to a page, you can use `get` method::

  driver.get("http://www.example.com")

To move backward and forward in your browser's history::

  driver.forward()
  driver.back()

Please be aware that this functionality depends entirely on the
underlying driver.  It's just possible that something unexpected may
happen when you call these methods if you're used to the behavior of
one browser over another.


Cookies
~~~~~~~

Before we leave these next steps, you may be interested in
understanding how to use cookies.  First of all, you need to be on the
domain that the cookie will be valid for:

::

  # Go to the correct domain
  driver.get("http://www.example.com")

  # Now set the cookie. This one's valid for the entire domain
  cookie = {‘name’ : ‘foo’, ‘value’ : ‘bar’}
  driver.add_cookie(cookie)

  # And now output all the available cookies for the current URL
  driver.get_cookies()

Commit message:

Fix small typos
Selecting an element by id implies that the element has an id, and hence can occur only once on a page. So no need to refer to a 'first' one on the page which implies there could be multiple such elements.

source/navigating.rst, after:

.. _navigating:

Navigating
----------

The first thing you'll want to do with WebDriver is navigate to a
link.  The normal way to do this is by calling ``get`` method:

::

  driver.get("http://www.google.com")

WebDriver will wait until the page has fully loaded (that is, the
``onload`` event has fired) before returning control to your test or
script.  It's worth noting that if your page uses a lot of AJAX on
load then WebDriver may not know when it has completely loaded.  If
you need to ensure such pages are fully loaded then you can use
:ref:`waits <waits>`.

Interacting with the page
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Just being able to go to places isn't terribly useful.  What we'd
really like to do is to interact with the pages, or, more
specifically, the HTML elements within a page.  First of all, we need
to find one.  WebDriver offers a number of ways to find elements.  For
example, given an element defined as::

  <input type="text" name="passwd" id="passwd-id" />

you could find it using any of::

  element = driver.find_element_by_id("passwd-id")
  element = driver.find_element_by_name("passwd")
  element = driver.find_element_by_xpath("//input[@id='passwd-id']")

You can also look for a link by its text, but be careful! The text
must be an exact match! You should also be careful when using `XPATH
in WebDriver`.  If there's more than one element that matches the
query, then only the first will be returned.  If nothing can be found,
a ``NoSuchElementException`` will be raised.

.. TODO: Is this following paragraph correct ?

WebDriver has an "Object-based" API; we represent all types of
elements using the same interface.  This means that although you may
see a lot of possible methods you could invoke when you hit your IDE's
auto-complete key combination, not all of them will make sense or be
valid.  Don't worry! WebDriver will attempt to do the Right Thing, and
if you call a method that makes no sense ("setSelected()" on a "meta"
tag, for example) an exception will be raised.

So, you've got an element.  What can you do with it? First of all, you
may want to enter some text into a text field::

  element.send_keys("some text")

You can simulate pressing the arrow keys by using the "Keys" class::

  element.send_keys(" and some", Keys.ARROW_DOWN)

It is possible to call `send_keys` on any element, which makes it
possible to test keyboard shortcuts such as those used on GMail.  A
side-effect of this is that typing something into a text field won't
automatically clear it.  Instead, what you type will be appended to
what's already there.  You can easily clear the contents of a text
field or textarea with the `clear` method::

  element.clear()


Filling in forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We've already seen how to enter text into a textarea or text field,
but what about the other elements? You can "toggle" the state of the
drop down, and you can use "setSelected" to set something like an
`OPTION` tag selected.  Dealing with `SELECT` tags isn't too bad::

    element = driver.find_element_by_xpath("//select[@name='name']")
    all_options = element.find_elements_by_tag_name("option")
    for option in all_options:
        print("Value is: %s" % option.get_attribute("value"))
        option.click()

This will find the first "SELECT" element on the page, and cycle
through each of its OPTIONs in turn, printing out their values, and
selecting each in turn.

As you can see, this isn't the most efficient
way of dealing with SELECT elements. WebDriver's support classes
include one called a "Select", which provides useful methods for
interacting with these::

    from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import Select
    select = Select(driver.find_element_by_name('name'))
    select.select_by_index(index)
    select.select_by_visible_text("text")
    select.select_by_value(value)


WebDriver also provides features for deselecting all the selected options::

    select = Select(driver.find_element_by_id('id'))
    select.deselect_all()

This will deselect all OPTIONs from that particular SELECT on the page.

Suppose in a test, we need the list of all default selected options, Select
class provides a property method that returns a list::

    select = Select(driver.find_element_by_xpath("//select[@name='name']"))
    all_selected_options = select.all_selected_options
    
To get all available options::

    options = select.options

Once you've finished filling out the form, you probably want to submit
it. One way to do this would be to find the "submit" button and click
it::

  # Assume the button has the ID "submit" :)
  driver.find_element_by_id("submit").click()

Alternatively, WebDriver has the convenience method "submit" on every
element.  If you call this on an element within a form, WebDriver will
walk up the DOM until it finds the enclosing form and then calls
submit on that.  If the element isn't in a form, then the
``NoSuchElementException`` will be raised::

  element.submit()


Drag and drop
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can use drag and drop, either moving an element by a certain
amount, or on to another element::

  element = driver.find_element_by_name("source")
  target = driver.find_element_by_name("target")

  from selenium.webdriver import ActionChains
  action_chains = ActionChains(driver)
  action_chains.drag_and_drop(element, target).perform()

Moving between windows and frames
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's rare for a modern web application not to have any frames or to be
constrained to a single window.  WebDriver supports moving between
named windows using the "switch_to_window" method::

  driver.switch_to_window("windowName")

All calls to ``driver`` will now be interpreted as being directed to
the particular window.  But how do you know the window's name? Take a
look at the javascript or link that opened it::

  <a href="somewhere.html" target="windowName">Click here to open a new window</a>

Alternatively, you can pass a "window handle" to the
"switch_to_window()" method.  Knowing this, it's possible to iterate
over every open window like so::

  for handle in driver.window_handles:
      driver.switch_to_window(handle)

You can also swing from frame to frame (or into iframes)::

  driver.switch_to_frame("frameName")

It's possible to access subframes by separating the path with a dot,
and you can specify the frame by its index too.  That is::

  driver.switch_to_frame("frameName.0.child")

would go to the frame named "child" of the first subframe of the frame
called "frameName".  **All frames are evaluated as if from *top*.**

Once we are done with working on frames, we will have to come back
to the parent frame which can be done using::

  driver.switch_to_default_content()

Popup dialogs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selenium WebDriver has built-in support for handling popup dialog
boxes.  After you've triggered action that would open a popup, you
can access the alert with the following::

  alert = driver.switch_to_alert()

This will return the currently open alert object.  With this object,
you can now accept, dismiss, read its contents or even type into a
prompt.  This interface works equally well on alerts, confirms,
prompts.  Refer to the API documentation for more information.


Navigation: history and location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Earlier, we covered navigating to a page using the "get" command (
``driver.get("http://www.example.com")``) As you've seen, WebDriver
has a number of smaller, task-focused interfaces, and navigation is a
useful task.  To navigate to a page, you can use `get` method::

  driver.get("http://www.example.com")

To move backward and forward in your browser's history::

  driver.forward()
  driver.back()

Please be aware that this functionality depends entirely on the
underlying driver.  It's just possible that something unexpected may
happen when you call these methods if you're used to the behavior of
one browser over another.


Cookies
~~~~~~~

Before we leave these next steps, you may be interested in
understanding how to use cookies.  First of all, you need to be on the
domain that the cookie will be valid for:

::

  # Go to the correct domain
  driver.get("http://www.example.com")

  # Now set the cookie. This one's valid for the entire domain
  cookie = {‘name’ : ‘foo’, ‘value’ : ‘bar’}
  driver.add_cookie(cookie)

  # And now output all the available cookies for the current URL
  driver.get_cookies()
