source/page-objects.rst, before:

.. _page-objects:

Page Objects
------------

.. note::

   This chaper is a work in progress, right now I don't have time to
   finish it.  If anyone interested, please send pull request in
   `Github <https://github.com/baijum/selenium-python>`_.  Here is an
   example implementation of the page objects pattern:
   https://github.com/baijum/pitracker/tree/master/test/acceptance

This chapter is a tutorial introduction to use page objects design
pattern.  Here is a test case which searches for a word in python.org
website and ensure some results are found.

::

  import unittest
  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys
  import page

  class PythonOrgSearch(unittest.TestCase):

      def setUp(self):
          self.driver = webdriver.Firefox()
          driver.get("http://www.python.org")

      def test_search_in_python_org(self):
          main_page = page.MainPage(self.driver)
          assert main_page.is_title_matches(), "python.org title doesn't match."
	  main_page.search_text_element = "pycon"
	  main_page.click_go_button()
          search_results_page = page.SearchResultsPage(self.driver)
	  assert search_results_page.is_results_found(), "No results found."

      def tearDown(self):
          self.driver.close()

  if __name__ == "__main__":
      unittest.main()

The ``page.py`` will look like this::

  from element import BasePageElement
  from locators import MainPageLocators

  class SearchTextElement(BasePageElement):

      locator = 'q'


  class BasePage(object):

      def __init__(self, driver):
          self.driver = driver


  class MainPage(BasePage):

      search_text_element = SearchTextElement()

      def is_title_matches(self):
          pass

      def click_go_button(self):
          element = self.driver.find_element(*MainPageLocators.GO_BUTTON)
          element.click()


  class SearchResultsPage(BasePage):

      def is_results_found(self):
          pass

The ``element.py`` will look like this::

  from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import WebDriverWait


  class BasePageElement(object):

      def __set__(self, obj, value):
          driver = obj.driver
          WebDriverWait(driver, 100).until(
              lambda driver: driver.find_element_by_id(self.locator))
          driver.find_element_by_id(self.locator).send_keys(value)

      def __get__(self, obj, owner):
          driver = obj.driver
          WebDriverWait(driver, 100).until(
              lambda driver: driver.find_element_by_id(self.locator))
          element = driver.find_element_by_id(self.locator)
          return element.get_attribute("value")

The ``locators.py`` will look like this::

  from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By

  class MainPageLocators(object):
      GO_BUTTON = (By.ID, 'submit')

  class SearchResultsPageLocators(object):
      pass

Commit message:

Completed code in page-objects.rst

source/page-objects.rst, after:

.. _page-objects:

Page Objects
------------

.. note::

   Code in this chapter works and is quite self-descriptive, but a little description wouldn't hurt.
   If anyone interested, please send pull request in
   `Github <https://github.com/baijum/selenium-python>`_.  Here is an
   example implementation of the page objects pattern:
   https://github.com/baijum/pitracker/tree/master/test/acceptance

This chapter is a tutorial introduction to use page objects design
pattern.  Here is a test case which searches for a word in python.org
website and ensure some results are found.

::

  import unittest
  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.keys import Keys
  import page

  class PythonOrgSearch(unittest.TestCase):

      def setUp(self):
          self.driver = webdriver.Firefox()
          driver.get("http://www.python.org")

      def test_search_in_python_org(self):
          main_page = page.MainPage(self.driver)
          assert main_page.is_title_matches(), "python.org title doesn't match."
	  main_page.search_text_element = "pycon"
	  main_page.click_go_button()
          search_results_page = page.SearchResultsPage(self.driver)
	  assert search_results_page.is_results_found(), "No results found."

      def tearDown(self):
          self.driver.close()

  if __name__ == "__main__":
      unittest.main()

The ``page.py`` will look like this::

  from element import BasePageElement
  from locators import MainPageLocators

  class SearchTextElement(BasePageElement):

      locator = 'q'


  class BasePage(object):

      def __init__(self, driver):
          self.driver = driver


  class MainPage(BasePage):

      search_text_element = SearchTextElement()

      def is_title_matches(self):
          return "Python" in self.driver.title

      def click_go_button(self):
          element = self.driver.find_element(*MainPageLocators.GO_BUTTON)
          element.click()


  class SearchResultsPage(BasePage):

      def is_results_found(self):
          #Probably should search for this text in the specific page element, but as for now it works fine
          return "No results found." not in self.driver.page_source

The ``element.py`` will look like this::

  from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import WebDriverWait


  class BasePageElement(object):

      def __set__(self, obj, value):
          driver = obj.driver
          WebDriverWait(driver, 100).until(
              lambda driver: driver.find_element_by_name(self.locator))
          driver.find_element_by_name(self.locator).send_keys(value)

      def __get__(self, obj, owner):
          driver = obj.driver
          WebDriverWait(driver, 100).until(
              lambda driver: driver.find_element_by_name(self.locator))
          element = driver.find_element_by_name(self.locator)
          return element.get_attribute("value")

The ``locators.py`` will look like this::

  from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By

  class MainPageLocators(object):
      GO_BUTTON = (By.ID, 'submit')

  class SearchResultsPageLocators(object):
      pass
