source/waits.rst, before:

.. _waits:

Waits
-----

These days most of the web apps are using AJAX techniques.  When a
page is loaded by the browser, the elements within that page may load at
different time intervals.  This makes locating elements difficult: if
an element is not yet present in the DOM, a locate function will raise
an `ElementNotVisibleException` exception.  Using waits, we can solve
this issue.  Waiting provides some slack between actions
performed - mostly locating an element or any other operation with the
element.

Selenium Webdriver provides two types of waits - implicit & explicit.
An explicit wait makes WebDriver wait for a certain condition to
occur before proceeding further with execution.  An implicit wait
makes WebDriver poll the DOM for a certain amount of time when
trying to locate an element.


Explicit Waits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An explicit wait is a code you define to wait for a certain condition
to occur before proceeding further in the code.  The extreme case of
this is time.sleep(), which sets the condition to an exact time period
to wait.  There are some convenience methods provided that help you
write code that will wait only as long as required.  WebDriverWait in
combination with ExpectedCondition is one way this can be
accomplished.

::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By
  from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import WebDriverWait
  from selenium.webdriver.support import expected_conditions as EC

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()
  driver.get("http://somedomain/url_that_delays_loading")
  try:
      element = WebDriverWait(driver, 10).until(
          EC.presence_of_element_located((By.ID, "myDynamicElement"))
      )
  finally:
      driver.quit()


This waits up to 10 seconds before throwing a TimeoutException unless 
it finds the element to return within 10 seconds.  WebDriverWait
by default calls the ExpectedCondition every 500 milliseconds until it
returns successfully.  A successful return is for ExpectedCondition
type is Boolean return true or not null return value for all other
ExpectedCondition types.

**Expected Conditions**

There are some common conditions that are frequently of use when
automating web browsers.  Listed below are the names of
each. Selenium Python binding provides some `convenience methods <http://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/api.html#module-selenium.webdriver.support.expected_conditions>`_ so you
don't have to code an expected_condition class yourself or create your
own utility package for them.

- title_is
- title_contains
- presence_of_element_located
- visibility_of_element_located
- visibility_of
- presence_of_all_elements_located
- text_to_be_present_in_element
- text_to_be_present_in_element_value
- frame_to_be_available_and_switch_to_it
- invisibility_of_element_located
- element_to_be_clickable
- staleness_of
- element_to_be_selected
- element_located_to_be_selected
- element_selection_state_to_be
- element_located_selection_state_to_be
- alert_is_present

::

  from selenium.webdriver.support import expected_conditions as EC

  wait = WebDriverWait(driver, 10)
  element = wait.until(EC.element_to_be_clickable((By.ID, 'someid')))

The expected_conditions module contains a set of predefined conditions
to use with WebDriverWait.

**Custom Wait Conditions**

You can also create custom wait conditions when none of the previous convenience
methods fit your requirements.  A custom wait condition can be created using a class
with `__call__` method which returns `False` when the condition doesn't match.


::

  class element_has_css_class(object):
    """An expectation for checking that an element has a particular css class.

    locator - used to find the element
    returns the WebElement once it has the particular css class
    """
    def __init__(self, locator, css_class):
      self.locator = locator
      self.css_class = css_class

    def __call__(self, driver):
      element = driver.find_element(*self.locator)   # Finding the referenced element
      if self.css_class in element.get_attribute("class"):
          return element
      else:
          return False
          
  # Wait until an element with id='myNewInput' has class 'myCSSClass'
  wait = WebDriverWait(driver, 10)
  element = wait.until(element_has_css_class((By.ID, 'myNewInput'), "myCSSClass"))



Implicit Waits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An implicit wait tells WebDriver to poll the DOM for a certain
amount of time when trying to find any element (or elements)
not immediately available.  The default setting is 0.  Once set, the
implicit wait is set for the life of the WebDriver object.

::

  from selenium import webdriver

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()
  driver.implicitly_wait(10) # seconds
  driver.get("http://somedomain/url_that_delays_loading")
  myDynamicElement = driver.find_element_by_id("myDynamicElement")

Commit message:

Corrected some text in the getting-started, locating-elements, navigating and waits pages

source/waits.rst, after:

.. _waits:

Waits
-----

These days, most of the web apps are using AJAX techniques.  When a
page is loaded by the browser, the elements within that page may load at
different time intervals.  This makes locating elements difficult: if
an element is not yet present in the DOM, a locate function will raise
an `ElementNotVisibleException` exception.  Using waits, we can solve
this issue.  Waiting provides some slack between actions
performed - mostly locating an element or any other operation with the
element.

Selenium Webdriver provides two types of waits - implicit & explicit.
An explicit wait makes WebDriver wait for a certain condition to
occur before proceeding further with execution.  An implicit wait
makes WebDriver poll the DOM for a certain amount of time when
trying to locate an element.


Explicit Waits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An explicit wait is a code you define to wait for a certain condition
to occur before proceeding further in the code.  The extreme case of
this is time.sleep(), which sets the condition to an exact time period
to wait.  There are some convenience methods provided that help you
write code that will wait only as long as required.  WebDriverWait in
combination with ExpectedCondition is one way this can be
accomplished.

::

  from selenium import webdriver
  from selenium.webdriver.common.by import By
  from selenium.webdriver.support.ui import WebDriverWait
  from selenium.webdriver.support import expected_conditions as EC

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()
  driver.get("http://somedomain/url_that_delays_loading")
  try:
      element = WebDriverWait(driver, 10).until(
          EC.presence_of_element_located((By.ID, "myDynamicElement"))
      )
  finally:
      driver.quit()


In the code above, Selenium will wait for a maximum of 10 seconds for an element
matching the given criteria to be found. If no element is found in that time, 
a TimeoutException is thrown. By default, WebDriverWait calls the 
ExpectedCondition every 500 milliseconds until it returns success. 
ExpectedCondition will return `true` (Boolean) in case of success or `not null` 
if it fails to locate an element.

**Expected Conditions**

There are some common conditions that are frequently of use when
automating web browsers.  Listed below are the names of
each. Selenium Python binding provides some `convenience methods <http://selenium-python.readthedocs.io/api.html#module-selenium.webdriver.support.expected_conditions>`_ so you
don't have to code an expected_condition class yourself or create your
own utility package for them.

- title_is
- title_contains
- presence_of_element_located
- visibility_of_element_located
- visibility_of
- presence_of_all_elements_located
- text_to_be_present_in_element
- text_to_be_present_in_element_value
- frame_to_be_available_and_switch_to_it
- invisibility_of_element_located
- element_to_be_clickable
- staleness_of
- element_to_be_selected
- element_located_to_be_selected
- element_selection_state_to_be
- element_located_selection_state_to_be
- alert_is_present

::

  from selenium.webdriver.support import expected_conditions as EC

  wait = WebDriverWait(driver, 10)
  element = wait.until(EC.element_to_be_clickable((By.ID, 'someid')))

The expected_conditions module contains a set of predefined conditions
to use with WebDriverWait.

**Custom Wait Conditions**

You can also create custom wait conditions when none of the previous convenience
methods fit your requirements.  A custom wait condition can be created using a class
with `__call__` method which returns `False` when the condition doesn't match.


::

  class element_has_css_class(object):
    """An expectation for checking that an element has a particular css class.

    locator - used to find the element
    returns the WebElement once it has the particular css class
    """
    def __init__(self, locator, css_class):
      self.locator = locator
      self.css_class = css_class

    def __call__(self, driver):
      element = driver.find_element(*self.locator)   # Finding the referenced element
      if self.css_class in element.get_attribute("class"):
          return element
      else:
          return False
          
  # Wait until an element with id='myNewInput' has class 'myCSSClass'
  wait = WebDriverWait(driver, 10)
  element = wait.until(element_has_css_class((By.ID, 'myNewInput'), "myCSSClass"))



Implicit Waits
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An implicit wait tells WebDriver to poll the DOM for a certain
amount of time when trying to find any element (or elements)
not immediately available.  The default setting is 0 (zero).  Once set, the
implicit wait is set for the life of the WebDriver object.

::

  from selenium import webdriver

  driver = webdriver.Firefox()
  driver.implicitly_wait(10) # seconds
  driver.get("http://somedomain/url_that_delays_loading")
  myDynamicElement = driver.find_element_by_id("myDynamicElement")
